("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
- If you remember
brother, you had it last!
- [Narrator] Ronja and Birk
fought over a lost knife,
each blaming the other.
But after rescuing an
injured wild horse,
they soon made up.
Friends once again,
Birk told Ronja
that she was worth more
than a thousand knives.
The days passed.
Spring turned to summer.
The weather was warm.
(birds chirping)
(rain drops splattering)
Then the rain came.
For days and nights it
poured down over the forest,
which drank itself fresh
and green as never before.
(uplifting orchestral music)
And when the rain moved on,
and the sun came back again,
the forest steamed
in the summer heat.
They both felt that
no forest on earth
could smell quite as sweet.
- Lia!
- Ho, Lia!
(Lia neighs)
- There isn't much milk.
(Ronja slurping)
(horse neighs)
Villain, Savage!
(horses neighing)
Hey Villain, Savage.
Go away now, go on.
All you're good for is
causing trouble for us.
(horses snort)
(Birk laughs)
- The other horses
must be wondering,
what is he doing?
I bet they've never
seen this before.
- I always promised I'd
take you for a ride.
So here we go!
(horse neighs)
(Ronja grunting)
(Ronja screams)
(Ronja thuds)
Then again, maybe not today.
Villain by name,
villain by nature.
But I will ride you one day!
They'll be back.
I will not give up!
- [Narrator] And Ronja was back.
Each day after milking Lia,
Ronja and Birk tried to teach
Villain and Savage
better manners.
- Much better, you're
getting better.
Much more calm
and you're peaceful.
(horse neighs)
(Ronja thuds)
Please understand.
You've got to calm down.
Yes, like this, but
with me on your back.
(horse neighs)
Yes, this is much calmer, great!
- [Birk] What do you
think of my elbow?
- It's not as bad as this one.
Or this.
(laughing)
(horse neighs)
(playful music)
- [Narrator] But no
amount of teaching worked
on those wicked beasts.
- Well there's not a
single part of my body
that doesn't hurt,
and it's all your fault.
Do you hear me?
It's because of you.
Stop that.
- Ronja, look!
Would you believe?
I've trained my horse!
You're truly a good
boy, aren't ya?
The finest horse in the forest.
And you're second to none.
Good boy, eh?
(Ronja growls)
- Finest horse.
You can bet he's still
a savage in his heart.
(thunder rumbles)
(Ronja and Birk panting)
(Ronja snoring)
(playful music)
It's annoying.
He keeps riding off and
leaving me alone to milk you.
I can't bear to look
at his smug face.
(horse neighs)
(Birk giggles)
- [Birk] Hiya, get!
- When I'm finished
with this I'll show you.
Then you'll really see
some riding. (scoffs)
(horse neighs)
- Ronja!
After them!
(Ronja grunting and screaming)
- I don't know how much longer
I can hold on! (screams)
- Don't you dare let go.
Go!
Woah!
(horse panting)
- I bet you loved that.
You really ran well
today, good boy.
Hold on.
Naughty boy.
I should be telling
you off, shouldn't I?
You could have thrown me.
It's a miracle you didn't.
(laughs)
- It's a bigger miracle
we're both riding
these beautiful horses.
Of course now
these wicked beasts
should do just what we say.
- Villain, have I
really tamed you?
Have I?
(Villain snorts)
Hey Birk.
Have you noticed that
Lia's giving less milk?
I'm worried there's
something wrong with her.
- Hm, it's that time of year.
She probably has a new
foal on the way now.
And soon she will
dry up altogether.
- No more milk.
Well I guess it will
be spring water for us.
And we'll soon be having to
manage without bread as well.
- So even without
bread or Lia's milk,
there's no chance
that we'll starve.
The forest is full of food.
Fish, rabbits, and birds.
And we have the green leaves
and the herbs you picked for us.
(sighs)
- No, maybe not.
We might not starve, but...
I tell you, those first few
days without bread or milk,
they're going to be
absolutely impossible!
- [Narrator] That day came
sooner than they had expected.
(Ronja slurping)
- Well?
- No more than two
or three drops.
- I see.
Lia?
I want to thank you for
all you've given us.
Come next year,
you'll have your own
little baby to look after.
A foal.
Then you'll have
lots of milk again.
But remember, it will be for
your baby, not for us two.
You'll have your own family.
You must also thank her, Birk.
- Of course I will.
I thank you, Lia.
Now, you must go.
- Bye!
- Wow.
(laughing)
Well then, the
great greedy falls.
- If we were to fall in,
that would definitely
be the end of you and I.
(laughing)
(harpy calls)
- [Harpy] Look what I found.
Lovely little humans.
Now the blood will run.
- A harpy!
- Quick!
Ya!
(harpy calls)
(harpy screeches)
- Ronja, jump off!
- Right!
- Don't worry.
There's a reason harpies don't
attack beasts of the forest.
- It's only us humans
that they want to attack.
(harpy screeching)
(Birk and Ronja gasp)
- [Birk] Hey, hey!
(harpy screeches)
(dramatic music)
- Where is she?
The lovely girl
with the black hair?
Come out, children!
Ah, there's the little
human with the red hair!
(harpy screeches)
You can hide, but I will seek.
And I will find you.
And then you will be
clawed, clawed and shredded.
Where are you?!
Despicable humans.
I'll let all my lovely
sisters know about you.
Then you will be found!
(harpy screeching)
- Ronja.
Ronja?
Ronja!
- Birk!
We got away, we survived!
- We weren't clawed to death!
Or carried up to their
caves in the mountains!
- Although we shouldn't be
afraid of Mattis' forest.
But with wild harpies screeching
and flapping around your ears,
who wouldn't be afraid?
I was scared.
(giggles)
(laughing)
I guess we rode the horses
further than we thought.
- I don't care, do you?
I could walk like
this all night long.
As long as we don't see
any more wild harpies.
- To tell you the truth
I'll never get used to them.
They're terrifying.
But even with them
flying around,
I still think it's
wonderful here.
- You're right, there.
We get to be free,
and tame wild horses,
and the weather is lovely.
Day or night, under the
sun, or the moon, and stars!
- Yes.
But seasons change.
I love it in the spring, summer.
Autumn's great.
But winter.
(calm flute music)
- Ronja!
- The shadow folk.
They carry on.
All living cheerfully
in the wintertime.
- Sister mine, it's summer now.
- Yes.
And I shall always
treasure the memory
of this summer with you
in my heart, as long as I live.
- As long as I live.
- Hm?
- Yes, I shall carry
this summer in my heart
for as long as I live,
and wherever I am.
I know that.
- [Narrator] When they
returned to the bear's cave,
an unexpected guest
was waiting for them.
- It's Lill-Klippen!
- [Narrator] It was
Lill-Klippen,
one of Mattis' robbers.
(exciting music)
Next time on Ronja,
the Robber's Daughter.
"Hunted by Harpies".
Don't miss it!
(calm ambient music)